1756-Added downtime incident management document (#1781)
cisagov/manage.get.gov: docs/operations/runbooks/downtime_incident_management.md

# Downtime Incident Management Runbook

>  Our team has agreed upon steps for handling incidents that cause our site to go offline or become unusable for users. For this document, an incident refers to one in which manage.get.gov is offline or displaying error 400/500 HTTP errors on all pages and is caused by a critical bug in our code, not to be confused with a security incident. This document should not be used for security incident response.

Reviewer: regarding the "critical bug in our code," we won't know the cause at the outset, only that the site is down. Also, it needs to be clear how this is different from a security incident.

Author: Actually the point here is when there is only something critical in our code, but I could add in or third parties. The point being I don't want to make this doc about defining what a security attack could be, etc. This is about things in our control directly.

Author: language updated see what you think now

## Response management rules

The following set of rules should be followed while an incident is in progress.

> - The person who first notices that the site is down is responsible for using @here and notifying in #dotgov-announce that production is down

Reviewer: Should this be the new @dotgov-redalert slack channel?

Author: No not everyone is in dotgov-redalert cahnnel. This is to make sure everyone is in the loop

- Once an engineer is online, they should immediately start a huddle in the #dotgov-redalert channel to begin troubleshooting
- All available engineers should join the huddle once they see it.
  - If downtime occurs outside of working hours, team members who are off for the day may still be pinged and called but are not required to join if unavailable to do so.
- Uncomment the banner on get.gov, so it is transparent to users that we know about the issue on manage.get.gov
  - Designers or Developers should be able to make this change; if designers are online and can help with this task, that will allow developers to focus on fixing the bug.
- If the problem is not solved within three hours, change the rules on Cloudflare's admin site so that navigating to manage.get.gov redirects users to get.gov. This will help them see the banner on get.gov informing them that this is a known problem

## Post Incident

The following checklist should be followed after the site is back up and running.

- [ ] Turn off the redirect (if used) and verify functionality
- [ ] Remove the banner on get.gov by commenting it out

> - [ ] Write up what happened and when. If the cause is already known, write that as well.

Reviewer: We can put some effort into an "incident" template to be used during the outage, to capture the details as they happen.

Reviewer: Perhaps we pin the template to the redalert channel, so the reporter can grab it and start logging information.

Author: There is a template already in progress

# Downtime Incident Management Runbook

 Our team has agreed upon steps for handling incidents that cause our site to go offline or become unusable for users. For this document, an incident refers to one in which manage.get.gov is offline or displaying error 400/500 HTTP errors on all pages. However, for this document to apply the cause of the problem must be a critical bug in our code or one of our providers having an outage, not to be confused with a cyber security incident. This document should not be used in response to any type of cyber security incident.

## Response management rules

The following set of rules should be followed while an incident is in progress.

> - The person who first notices that the site is down is responsible for using @here and notifying in #dotgov-announce that production is down

Reviewer 2: fullstops after every bullet point.

Author: what? Chaotically switching between having periods and not having periods doesn't make sense? 

Will change this

  - This applies to any team member, including new team members and non-developers
- If no engineer has acknowledged the announcement within 10 minutes, whoever discovered the site was down should call each developer via the Slack DM huddle feature. If there is no response, this should escalate to a phone call.
  - When calling, go down the [phone call list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k4r-1MNCfW8EXSXa-tqJQzOvJxQv0ARvHnOjjAH0LII/edit) from top to bottom until someone answers who is available to help.
  - If this incident occurs outside of regular working hours, choosing to help is on a volunteer basis, and answering a call doesn't mean an individual is truly available to assist.
- Once an engineer is online, they should immediately start a huddle in the #dotgov-redalert channel to begin troubleshooting
- All available engineers should join the huddle once they see it.
  - If downtime occurs outside of working hours, team members who are off for the day may still be pinged and called but are not required to join if unavailable to do so.

> - Uncomment the banner on get.gov, so it is transparent to users that we know about the issue on manage.get.gov

Reviewer 3: I don't love leaving this in comments. I think I'd prefer we had the text in a document with clear instructions and prepared/templated language.

Author: We could do that but then we would need the whole banner in this separate doc (which isn't a huge issue).
@Katherine-Osos I believe you are making the text for the banner anyways, are you already using a content word document for it? Perhaps that could be used for this purpose as well? If not we could just copy your finished language and the banner and place it in a separate doc for anyone to use in an emergency.

Reviewer 3: We could also keep the code and content for the banner in this repo somewhere.

  - Designers or Developers should be able to make this change; if designers are online and can help with this task, that will allow developers to focus on fixing the bug.

> - If the problem is not solved within three hours, change the rules on Cloudflare's admin site so that navigating to manage.get.gov redirects users to get.gov. This will help them see the banner on get.gov informing them that this is a known problem

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the problem is not solved within three hours, change the rules on the [Cloudflare's DNS dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) so that navigating to manage.get.gov redirects users to get.gov. This will help them see the banner on get.gov informing them that this is a known problem
```

Reviewer 3: This should probably link to an internal doc that specifies who has access to make these changes...

## Post Incident

The following checklist should be followed after the site is back up and running.

> - [ ] Turn off the redirect (if used) and verify functionality

Reviewer 3: Add an @here to #dotgov-announce that the site is back up? Or reply to the prior @

  - When calling, go down the [phone call list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k4r-1MNCfW8EXSXa-tqJQzOvJxQv0ARvHnOjjAH0LII/edit) from top to bottom until someone answers who is available to help.
  - If this incident occurs outside of regular working hours, choosing to help is on a volunteer basis, and answering a call doesn't mean an individual is truly available to assist.
- Once an engineer is online, they should immediately start a huddle in the #dotgov-redalert channel to begin troubleshooting.
- All available engineers should join the huddle once they see it.
  - If downtime occurs outside of working hours, team members who are off for the day may still be pinged and called but are not required to join if unavailable to do so.
- Uncomment the banner on get.gov, so it is transparent to users that we know about the issue on manage.get.gov.
  - Designers or Developers should be able to make this change; if designers are online and can help with this task, that will allow developers to focus on fixing the bug.

> - If the problem is not solved within three hours, change the rules on the [Cloudflare's DNS dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) so that navigating to manage.get.gov redirects users to get.gov. This will help them see the banner on get.gov informing them that this is a known problem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the problem is not solved within three hours, change the rules on the [Cloudflare's DNS dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) so that navigating to manage.get.gov redirects users to get.gov. (See [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiWXpjBzbiKsSYqEo9Rkl72HMytMp7zTte9CI-vvwYw/edit) for how to make these changes and who can make them.) This will help them see the banner on get.gov informing them that this is a known problem.
```

Reviewer 3: @abroddrick I propose we test this redirect as configured after-hours sometime before this PR is merged.

Author: We have a ticket to investigate if the redirect is the right call and how to best do the redirect. Do we then want to block this ticket by that one? Also do we want to test it on our actual site or with something like dotgov.gov? If we do our site, I think we should show a maintenance banner in advance saying we will be offline for maintenance between X and Y and maybe show a maintence banner on get.gov too. Thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Ah, I [see that now](https://github.com/cisagov/manage.get.gov/issues/1785) and thought we'd already done that given the language about redirects. 

I defer to you. We could drop this language and wait for research to inform our approach (and merge this now) or we could hold this for research and update it more then.

Author: Good call, I just left this here and figured it would be updated in that ticket. However, yes I will remove that piece shortly and then we can just add it back in after we confirm that's the right step and have a document with the step by step instructions

Reviewer 3: 👍
